mg-master_RHOSPDOC-1200_STF-disconnected (#531)
infrawatch/documentation: doc-Service-Telemetry-Framework/modules/proc_deploying-stf-on-openshift-disconnected-environments.adoc

* A mirror registry so that the {OpenShift} cluster can access the required images. For more information about mirror registries, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring[Disconnected installation mirroring] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.
* All the {ProjectShort} dependencies are available in the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. 

.Adding {ProjectShort} dependencies to the mirror registry

You can use the `oc-mirror` plugin to fetch the {ProjectShort} dependencies and add them to the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. For more information about installing the `oc-mirror` plugin, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html-single/installing/index#installing-mirroring-disconnected[Mirroring images for a disconnected installation using the oc-mirror plugin] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.

.Procedure

. Create an `ImageSetConfiguration` resource to retrieve the {ProjectShort} dependencies:

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----

> apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2

Reviewer: Other examples in the STF guide usually provide these files with `oc create -f - <<EOF` type setups so that you can show the user how to get this applied to the cluster.

----

. (Optional) If your mirror registry is not reachable, you can save the manifests and images that you fetched with `oc-mirror` and physically transfer them to the mirror registry and {OpenShift} cluster. Otherwise you can run `oc-mirror` and point to the mirror registry.  

+
You can use the `oc-mirror` plugin differently, depending on your environment, such as:

* mirroring between mirrors.
* mirror from mirror to disk.
* mirror from disk to mirror.

+
For more information about different `oc-mirror` scenarios, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#mirroring-image-set-full[Mirroring an image set in a fully disconnected environment] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.

. Push the {ProjectShort} operators and their dependencies from the mirror registry and generate the manifest for the {OpenShift} cluster.

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
$ oc-mirror --config imagesetconfig.yaml <mirror_registry_location>
----

+
* Replace <mirror_registry_location> with the filepath to the mirror registry that you want to use.

+

> . Locate the generated manifests and apply them to the target OCP cluster. For more information, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#oc-mirror-updating-cluster-manifests_installing-mirroring-disconnected[Configuring your cluster to use the resources generated by oc-mirror] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.

Reviewer: Another use of short form OCP. Need to not use those.

+

> NOTE: The manifests that you generate with `oc-mirror` produce catalogs with the full index name, such as `redhat-operator-index` instead of `redhat-operators` for `CatalogSource`. Ensure that you use the correct index name for the {ProjectShort}  subscriptions.For more information, see: xref:deploying-stf-to-the-openshift-environment_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[]. For more information about customizing Operators with oc mirror, see the Red Hat Knowledgebase solution link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7016714[How to customize the catalog name and tags of Operators mirrored to the mirror registry using the oc mirror plugin.] 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The manifests that you generate with `oc-mirror` produce catalogs with the full index name, such as `redhat-operator-index` instead of `redhat-operators` for `CatalogSource`. Ensure that you use the correct index name for the {ProjectShort} subscriptions. For more information, see: xref:deploying-stf-to-the-openshift-environment_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[]. For more information about customizing Operators with oc mirror, see the Red Hat Knowledgebase solution link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7016714[How to customize the catalog name and tags of Operators mirrored to the mirror registry using the oc mirror plugin.] 
```

////
[role="_additional-resources"]
.Next steps

* Continue to install {ProjectShort} as in a non-restricted network environment.

> ////

Reviewer: If you're going to comment out a section, please delete it.

[id="deploying-stf-on-openshift-disconnected-environments_{context}"]

> = Deploying {ProjectShort} on {OpenShiftShort}-disconnected environments

Reviewer: We've been specifically asked not to use "OCP" in the documentation, so there should really be no usage of {OpenShiftShort} in the STF docs. Not sure how strong a request that is now, but if you grep in the docs for that variable, you won't really find it in any spots. I suggest we remove it's usage from this module for consistency.

I would just write this to be `= Deploying {ProjectShort} in disconnected environments`.

Reviewer 2: I just checked this and we still do not use OCP in docs. @mickogeary how about deleting the attribute altogether from the attributes file? Should have done that myself long ago!

Reviewer: I opened this to cover the removal: https://github.com/infrawatch/documentation/pull/532

[role="_abstract"]
Since {Project} ({ProjectShort}) version 1.5.4, you can deploy {ProjectShort} in {OpenShift}-disconnected environments.

.Prerequisites

> * {OpenShift}({OpenShiftShort}) Extended Update Support (EUS) version 4.12 or 4.14 deployed in a restricted network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {OpenShift} Extended Update Support (EUS) version 4.12 or 4.14 deployed in a restricted network.
```

> * A mirror registry so that the {OpenShift} cluster can access the required images. For more information about mirror registry for {OpenShiftShort}, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring[Disconnected installation mirroring] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ Guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A mirror registry so that the {OpenShift} cluster can access the required images. For more information about mirror registries, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring[Disconnected installation mirroring] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ Guide.
```

> * All the {ProjectShort} dependencies are available in the {OpenShiftShort} cluster mirror registry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All the {ProjectShort} dependencies are available in the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. 
```

> .Adding {ProjectShort} dependencies to the mirror registry

Reviewer 2: Just read further down and now it definitely looks like another prereq

> You can use the `oc-mirror` tool to fetch the {ProjectShort} dependencies and add them to the {OpenShiftShort} cluster mirror registry. For more information about installing the `oc-mirror` tool, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html-single/installing/index#installing-mirroring-disconnected[Mirroring images for a disconnected installation using the oc-mirror plugin] in the {OpenShiftShort} _Installing_ Guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `oc-mirror` tool to fetch the {ProjectShort} dependencies and add them to the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. For more information about installing the `oc-mirror` tool, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html-single/installing/index#installing-mirroring-disconnected[Mirroring images for a disconnected installation using the oc-mirror plugin] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.
```

.Procedure

. Create an `ImageSetConfiguration` resource to retrieve the {ProjectShort} dependencies:

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----

> $ oc create -f - <<EOF

Reviewer: Sorry I was wrong about this. We should not do this.

I see 2 steps down we do this procedural step:

`$ oc-mirror --config imagesetconfig.yaml <mirror_registry_location>`

We should actually tell the user to write the contents to a file which we can use later.

If you look at something like here: https://infrawatch.github.io/documentation/#creating-the-base-configuration-for-stf_assembly-completing-the-stf-configuration

You can see that we create a procedural step to create the file (which is what we should do here) and then we reference the file later on when doing the actual command that needs that config file.

Author: Remove the $ oc create -f - <<EOF ?

And add something like:

1. Log in to the undercloud host as the stack user.
 
2. Create a configuration file called ImageSetConfiguration.yaml in the /home/stack directory.

?

Reviewer: Yea, except you won't have a `/home/stack` directory since this is being done against OpenShift. I'd just say something like "Create a file named imagesetconfig.yaml in a working directory with the following contents:" and then you can reference it 2 steps down.

Author: Replace:
. Create an `ImageSetConfiguration` resource to retrieve the {ProjectShort} dependencies:
with:
. Create a file named imagesetconfig.yaml in a working directory with the following contents:

and remove 

$ oc create -f - <<EOF

is this correct?

Reviewer: Actually if you do it like we do in the other section, you'd just say something like this:

```
. Create an imagesetconfig.yaml file in your local working directory.
+
.imagesetconfig.yaml
[source,yaml,options="nowrap"]
----
<content>
----
```

> . Create an `ImageSetConfiguration` resource to retrieve the {ProjectShort} dependencies:
> 
> +
> [source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
> ----
> $ oc create -f - <<EOF
> apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
> kind: ImageSetConfiguration
> storageConfig:
>   local:
>     path: ./
> mirror:
>   operators:
>   - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14
>     packages:
>       - name: service-telemetry-operator
>         channels:
>           - name: stable-1.5
>       - name: openshift-cert-manager-operator
>         channels:
>           - name: stable-v1
>       - name: amq7-interconnect-operator
>         channels:
>           - name: 1.10.x
>       - name: smart-gateway-operator
>         channels:
>           - name: stable-1.5
>       - name: cluster-observability-operator
>         channels:
>           - name: development
> EOF
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create an `imagesetconfiguration.yaml` file in your local working directory.
+
.imagesetconfiguration.yaml
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  local:
    path: ./
mirror:
  operators:
  - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14
    packages:
      - name: service-telemetry-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-1.5
      - name: openshift-cert-manager-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-v1
      - name: amq7-interconnect-operator
        channels:
          - name: 1.10.x
      - name: smart-gateway-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-1.5
      - name: cluster-observability-operator
        channels:
          - name: development
----
```

> . (Optional) If your mirror registry is not reachable, you can save the manifests and images that you fetched with `oc-mirror` and physically transfer them to the mirror registry and {OpenShiftShort} cluster. Otherwise you can run `oc-mirror` and point to the mirror registry.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Optional) If your mirror registry is not reachable, you can save the manifests and images that you fetched with `oc-mirror` and physically transfer them to the mirror registry and {OpenShift} cluster. Otherwise you can run `oc-mirror` and point to the mirror registry.  
```

Reviewer 2: Nit: 

Change (Optional) to Optional: 

Just updating formatting for optional step (pg 202 IBM SG)

+

> You can use the oc-mirror plugin differently, depending on your environment, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the `oc-mirror` plugin differently, depending on your environment, such as:
```

* mirroring between mirrors.
* mirror from mirror to disk

> * mirror from disk to mirror.

Reviewer: I don't think you want periods ending these line items, and if you do, you should do it on all lines.

+

> For more information about different oc-mirror scenarios, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#mirroring-image-set-full[Mirroring an image set in a fully disconnected environment]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about different oc-mirror scenarios, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#mirroring-image-set-full[Mirroring an image set in a fully disconnected environment]
```

+

> For more information about different `oc-mirror` scenarios, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#mirroring-image-set-full[Mirroring an image set in a fully disconnected environment] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ guide.

Reviewer: `see:` with a colon doesn't match our existing style.

Our style is more like this:

> For more information about STF life cycle and support status, see the [Service Telemetry Framework Supported Version Matrix](https://access.redhat.com/node/6225361).

Reviewer: If you search for `see:` you will find 3 instances of that in this file.

> . Push the {ProjectShort} operators and their dependencies from the mirror registry and generate the manifest for the OCP cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Push the {ProjectShort} operators and their dependencies from the mirror registry and generate the manifest for the {OpenShift} cluster.
```

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
$ oc-mirror --config imagesetconfig.yaml <Mirror_Registry_Location><1>
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
* Replace <Mirror_Registry_Location> with the filepath to the mirror registry that you want to use

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> . Locate the generated manifests and apply them to the target OCP cluster. For more information, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#oc-mirror-updating-cluster-manifests_installing-mirroring-disconnected[Configuring your cluster to use the resources generated by oc-mirror]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Locate the generated manifests and apply them to the target {OpenShift} cluster. For more information, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring#oc-mirror-updating-cluster-manifests_installing-mirroring-disconnected[Configuring your cluster to use the resources generated by oc-mirror]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> NOTE: The manifests that you generate with `oc-mirror` produce catalogs with the full index name, such as `redhat-operator-index` instead of `redhat-operators` for `CatalogSource`. Ensure that you use the correct index name for the {ProjectShort}  subscriptions. For more information, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/{osp_curr_ver}/html-single/service_telemetry_framework_1.5/index#assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf_assembly[Installing the core components of Service Telemetry Framework]. For more information about customizing Operators with oc mirror, see the Red Hat Knowledgebase solution link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7016714[How to customize the catalog name and tags of Operators mirrored to the mirror registry using the oc mirror plugin.] 

Reviewer: Do not link to internal guides within STF with `link`. Please use `xref` and the `id` values with the assembly ID.

+
NOTE: The manifests that you generate with `oc-mirror` produce catalogs with the full index name, such as `redhat-operator-index` instead of `redhat-operators` for `CatalogSource`. Ensure that you use the correct index name for the {ProjectShort}  subscriptions. For more information, see: xref:deploying-stf-to-the-openshift-environment_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[]. For more information about customizing Operators with oc mirror, see the Red Hat Knowledgebase solution link:https://access.redhat.com/solutions/7016714[How to customize the catalog name and tags of Operators mirrored to the mirror registry using the oc mirror plugin.] 

> ////
> [role="_additional-resources"]
> .Next steps
> 
> * Continue to install {ProjectShort} as in a non-restricted network environment.
> ////

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I'm still expecting this to be deleted, not left as a large comment.

> * Continue to install {ProjectShort} as in a non-restricted network environment.

Reviewer: We have never used "Next steps" (as it was created after we started on STF documentation) so you can drop this. I believe the purpose is intended to link to next xref locations that would make sense to go to after you've done this procedure.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

$ oc get catalogsources
----

> * You have deployed {ProjectShort} in a disconnected {OpenShiftShort} cluster and therefore cannot access external networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have deployed {ProjectShort} in a disconnected {OpenShift} cluster and therefore cannot access external networks.
```

Reviewer 2: @mickogeary Not sure why this isn't in present tense. If it's a step, it must be in present tense. It reads like a prereq right now.

Author: It is a verification step

////

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* TBD

> ////

Reviewer: If you don't have any links / reference material to give to the user, then you can simply remove this.

Reviewer 2: +1

[id="deploying-stf-on-openshift-disconnected-environments_{context}"]
= Deploying STF on OpenShift-disconnected environments

[role="_abstract"]
Since {Project} ({ProjectShort}) version 1.5.4, you can deploy {ProjectShort} in {OpenShift}-disconnected environments.

.Prerequisites

* {OpenShift} Extended Update Support (EUS) version 4.12 or 4.14 deployed in a restricted network.

> * A mirror registry so that the {OpenShift} cluster can access the required images. For more information about mirror registry for {OpenShift}, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html/installing/disconnected-installation-mirroring[Disconnected installation mirroring] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ Guide.

Reviewer: You need to replace `4.14` in the link with `{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}`

* All the {ProjectShort} dependencies are available in the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. 

.Adding {ProjectShort} dependencies to the mirror registry

> You can use the `oc-mirror` tool to fetch the {ProjectShort} dependencies and add them to the {OpenShift} cluster mirror registry. For more information about installing the `oc-mirror` tool, see link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/openshift_container_platform/4.14/html-single/installing/index#installing-mirroring-disconnected[Mirroring images for a disconnected installation using the oc-mirror plugin] in the {OpenShift} _Installing_ Guide.

Reviewer: You need to replace `4.14` in the link with `{NextSupportedOpenShiftVersion}`

.Procedure

. Create an `ImageSetConfiguration` resource to retrieve the {ProjectShort} dependencies:

> 

Reviewer: I don't think this renders quite correctly when there are newlines between the +'s

> 

Reviewer: @mickogeary have you built this locally and verified that everything renders as you expect?

+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  local:
    path: ./
mirror:
  operators:
  - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.14
    packages:
      - name: service-telemetry-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-1.5
      - name: openshift-cert-manager-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-v1
      - name: amq7-interconnect-operator
        channels:
          - name: 1.10.x
      - name: smart-gateway-operator
        channels:
          - name: stable-1.5
      - name: cluster-observability-operator
        channels:
          - name: development
----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+
NOTE: This example is for {OpenShift} version 4.14. 

> 

Author: Is this part of the note or is it the next step?

> 

Reviewer 3: Locate the generated manifests and apply them to the target OCP cluster. More details about this can be seen in https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/installing/disconnected_install/installing-mirroring-disconnected.html#oc-mirror-updating-cluster-manifests_installing-mirroring-disconnected

Reviewer 3: Next step

. If your mirror registry is not reachable, you can save the manifests and images that you fetched with `oc-mirror` and physically transfer them to the mirror registry and {OpenShift} cluster. Otherwise you can run `oc-mirror` and point to the mirror registry.  

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

+

> NOTE: The manifests that you generate with `oc-mirror` produce catalogs with the full index name, such as `redhat-operator-index` instead of `redhat-operators` for `CatalogSource`. Ensure that you use the correct index name for the {ProjectShort}  subscriptions. For more information, see: link:https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/17.1/html-single/service_telemetry_framework_1.5/index#assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf_assembly[Installing the core components of Service Telemetry Framework]. 

Reviewer: Please use xrefs to internal links so that it works across various versions. Never use `link` to self-linked documentation. It will result in the 16.2 documentation linking to the 17.1 documentation.

////

.Verification

> * TBD

Author: would another verification be that your STF is up-and-running and you cannot access external sites (disconnected), or that is not enough information?

> * TBD

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think we can add that as verification as well, perhaps more clear than checking the the catalog entries have been created correctly.

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Next steps

* Continue to install {ProjectShort} as in a non-restricted network environment.

.Verification

* Check that the catalog sources are applied. You can return the entries for new catalogs that reference the {ProjectShort} operators and their dependencies:

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
$ oc get catalogsources
----

> * You have deployed {ProjectShort} and cannot access external networks.

Reviewer 3: I would rephrase this as

* You have deployed {ProjectShort} in a disconnected {OpenShiftShort} cluster
